Agility | Customer Satisfaction | Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software,The needs of our customer is at the center of our work. Distinguish between needs, objectives and requirements of your customer. If you know the needs and objectives, you are able and have to communicate a clear vision of the project - don't start without these. Have the needs, objectives and requirements in an unambiguous prioritized order. A project is successful if the customers' needs are fulfilled! A clear and communicated vision is the base for self-organization. Clear prioritization helps you to validate and reach the core needs of your customers and secure it, before starting to tackle lower priority items. Example: Christopher Columbus failed in his objective to find a westward route to India to enter the spice trade (requirement) but succeeded to fulfill the need of the Spanish Crown for profit by discovering America. With the knowledge of the need he was able to set up adapted objectives and requirements with his customer.
Agility | Changing Requirements | Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage——Embrace change. To enable this, we must be both stringent and flexible in the way we document and manage such changes. Manage change actively - everyone in the team is responsible for recognizing, treating and documenting the changes. Updates to the project plan or to the client contract may be necessary. Understand the impact of any requested changes. The more fundamental or pervasive an impact brought by a change, the more consciously you should commit to them. Be generous with low-impact changes. Be stingy with changes which undermine or dilute the foundations of the project (assumptions in design/architecture/usage...) or which increases your technical debt to an unacceptable degree. When you are stringent/clean with your spec (a maintained, understandable, manageable backlog), then you can be initially clear on what's requested and it is easier to recognize and manage the "delta". We recognize that customer requirements (or our preferred solution approach) will change as our solution evolves, simply because knowledge about the challenge and its solutions rises over time. The better we are able to handle changes, the better we can understand and support our clients in an always changing world.
Agility | Frequent Delivery | Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale. The earlier a client/customer can see a result, the earlier it is possible to obtain feedback and to correct mistakes in the product vision. You gain more trust by showing your progress (and your problems) without hiding it.
Agility | Working Together | Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project. No plan and process can replace a good working together, based on trust. Documents and plans help us in not forgetting something, but in the end, the way of working together is what makes us successful.
Agility | Motivation | Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done. This may be a "soft fact", but a motivated team is a good indicator for a well performing project, because it usually means people are aware of their goals and motivated to reach it.
Agility | Face-to-face Conversation | The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation,Nothing is better than close contact. It reduces the risk of misunderstandings.
Agility | Working Software | Working software is the primary measure of progress——The centerpiece of all our efforts.
Agility | Constant Pace | Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely .You reach this with fixed work intervals (sprints). A fixed rhythm enables you to optimize your daily work routine. Keep that pace until the end.
Agility | Technical Excellence | Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility .Having the right technology for the job. But try not to include too many new technologies into a project.
Agility | Simplicity | Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential .Be pragmatic, use the right tools and processes to reach your destination but reflect in intervals whether something is still necessary or not.
Agility | Self-organizing Teams | The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams .After all, the teams are doing the relevant work in a project. When they accept the job and get self organized, there is little that can stop them.
Agility | Retrospective | At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly .Enable and encourage Learning. Throughout the entire project, create regular checkpoints to evaluate and challenge the effectiveness of your process. Any agreed improvements are swiftly implemented and followed-up upon. (development methodology, communication, roles) strive to improve opportunities. Conduct a lessons learned/Retrospective session periodically. Find out the weaknesses followed by defining action points. Reflect your strengths and expand them further. The team should establish a routine to regularly reflect and improve their methods and results. They actively request feedback from their respective stakeholders, possibly in various groups (team-level, among product owners, all-hands/across teams, project-vs.-customers etc.). The results of these Retrospectives should be logged (in a light-weight manner) and followed-up upon in the next iteration/sprint/phase. Establish a feedback culture i.e. make taking and giving feedback normal and people know how to do both. Without continous improvement it is likely to repeat the same mistake again. Enable the team to continuously improve and to become more efficient in their daily work.
Overall Process | Transparent Planning | Have a holistic project plan and make it come to life, think ahead and update it regularly. The plan should be detailed for the near future and coarse grained for the more distant future. Know your critical path. Communicate your plan regularly to everybody who needs to know, adapted to the respective audience. Make sure plans on all "levels" (program-wide, within teams, Iteration planning etc.) are in sync and reflect what is actually to be done. Ideally, plans on the individual and team levels can be easily derived from a larger, higher-level plan .Set up project delivery strategy (communication, working principles, controlling etc.) holistically. All parties must collaborate in all stages of the project/product lifecycle - albeit with varying contribution levels. We must think beyond the creation of pure "software" and consider other aspects: hardware/infrastructure, adaption of business/organizational processes or structures, training etc. .The plan should be "experiencable" on all levels of the project. Assure that the plan is assessed and updated in the frequency the project calls for. By using this way it always reflects the latest insights of the feasibility, business priority etc. thus enabling the Project Lead to steer forward-looking. The plan must be communicated in such a way that stakeholders understand the impact on and value for their business.
Overall Process | Research vs. Delivery | Distinguish between exploration and productization. Adapt project methodology and goals to match how clearly a business need is understood. To prove feasibility, do a time-boxed research project. To create a defined product, do a delivery project. Don't mix .A research project is successful when it gives a positive OR negative answer to a question, thus when knowledge is increased. Results of a research project may be e.g. a working prototype, a proof of a thesis, a proof of impossibility .Results of a delivery project may be e.g. working software, working infrastructure. A delivery project is successful when it fulfills a customers' need in a given time, with given budget and resources and in a given quality.
Overall Process | Scope Management | Be able to name your scope completely i.e. have a scope list (e.g. backlog). Have unique priorities for every demand/requirement. Make it possible to derive everything (like tests, etc.) from your scope management (Traceability). Have someone responsible on customer AND deliverer side for the scope list. Have a reproducible and documented scoping, in case of an iterative process have additionally a regular and incremental scoping .Ask 5 times 'why' when talking about requirements to find out the real need. Example: It is said that Henry Ford (the American industrialist who founded the Ford Motor Company and developed and manufactured the first automobile that many middle class Americans could afford) has stated: "If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said: faster horses". Document your scope in each stage of clarity: in the very beginning maybe only meeting minutes, in the end maybe formal user stories. Anti-Pattern: mostly "verbal" requirements, very vague specs/stories.
Overall Process | Risk Management | Prove feasibility early and identify the riskiest aspects of your solution and tackle them first. Have a list with uniquely prioritized risks and regular status / steering meetings through all levels to discuss them. Define your increments so that you can prove your assumptions before you scale in terms of breadth of functionality or maturity/richness etc .The earlier you prove the end-to-end feasibility ? the lower the cost of changing your project's approach. When your Stakeholders also know the risks and how you handle them, they will be less surprised (or angry) in case a risk becomes active. Minimal viable product and walking skeleton approach are good examples to handle risk.
Overall Process | Roles And Responsibilities | Assign responsibilities based on roles. Clearly define a set of roles that match your project and chosen development process. For each role, outline responsibilities by defining duties AND rights, so that each role can deliver optimal results. Then jointly map roles to people. Communicate and vet these definitions to everybody involved, regularly revisit them, and improve them whenever they prove unclear. Encourage that roles and responsibilities are internalized by the team and "lived"/operationalized on a daily basis. Make sure that the right people fulfill their roles, e.g. are the ones who take decisions. On a team level ...be aware that systems and communication follow organization (see also Conway's Law). ...bundle the people together you want to self-organize .Try to assign just one role to a team member. If a team member plays several roles, make sure that during each interaction with the team it is clear in which role they are acting. You could regularly confirm/remind/challenge in which role someone is contributing at a given meeting or discussion. Retrospectives could include a check on how well roles are filled/executed. You could also create a RACI-Matrix which is regularly revisited. Self-organization and autonomy is only possible with close alignment among and between teams. Assure these two are in balance! The amount of self-organization should relate to your project setup (for example, whether your teams are co-located or geographically distant). Assure that there is someone in each team responsible for fostering, governing and improving the self-organization (e.g. a "Scrum Master" if you're running on Scrum).
Overall Process | Documentation | Leave a Documentation trail. We document regularly and with sufficient scope and detail. Documentation is an explicit task and part of our Definition of Done. This applies to both the "software-related" documentation (concepts/specs, code, user manuals) but also ongoing project artifacts (team roles, vacations, meeting notes). It is obligatory that a development project delivers a functional and technical documentation together with the system .Assuming that people "remember" agreements, or "interpret" the workings of a piece of software is hazardous. If in doubt, log something quickly, immediately and in the right place. Redundancy should be minimized to avoid misunderstandings which version of an artifact is binding or current. Keeping documentation light-weight will reduce the barriers to keep it fresh. Therefore choose wisely the proper format for the job (texts, diagrams, images, wiki/glossary) that can be understood by the relevant stakeholders. Prefer few (important) documentation that is always up to date over much documentation that is not up to date.
Overall Process | Quality Gates | Follow defined Quality Gates and include them deeply into the project .Without complying defined Quality Gates it is possible that issues will be detected too late. Additionally the overall goal is endangered.
Overall Process | Bugfixing Strategy | Define a strategy for handling bugs during release preparation and in production. This should include the versioning scheme for bugfixes (buildmanagement). Test your strategy with dummy bugs before going into production .Bugfixing processes, builds and deployments need to be in place before first production deployment to allow fast reaction when the first bugs are encountered.
Requirements | Know your users | In order to build the right solution a thorough knowledge of the users, their roles and their capabilities is essential .Never forget that people will use our products and they have to be happy with it.
Requirements | User perspective | Specify from the perspective of the users. Use their language when describing requirements .Putting yourself into the role of the user is essential to understand the needs of the users. You will automatically think about different user groups and different roles and their specific demands and capabilities. Furthermore, it will prevent you from thinking about implementation details and enable testing teams to create better test cases.
Requirements | Requirements are understood | We have a good and sufficient understanding of requirements and solution approach. The requirements documentation is easy to understand for the business and those who implement the solution .A clear definition of the scope is a must have. Otherwise, you will end up designing and building a system without a clear focus.
Requirements | Trust in our estimates | We trust in our estimates; looking backward our estimates were neither too high nor too low. If possible estimations come from the whole team .Being able to estimate (be it in person-days or story points) is essential in order to steer the project.
Requirements | Traceability | Projects are devided into releases, features, stories and so on. It's well documented what artefact is in which state and the overall project scope can be derived by those artefacts. A tool (like Microsoft TFS, Azure DevOps, Jira and etc) covers the traceability and people are aware of how artefacts are connected .We do nothing in a project without a reason - it must be connected to the project in a way.
Requirements | Functional overall picture | Have a big picture that gives everybody an overview of what has to be achieved or is already there .It's essential to have an always up-to-date view on the system. Business, architecture and team use this big picture to work towards the same goals.
Requirements | Functionality leads technology | We implement to satisfy business needs. Technology gets used to achieve those needs .We satisfy our stakeholder by providing business value. Technology is  the tool for doing so. In general, functionality drives the technology. We are aware of exceptions and keep them limited. The backlog contains firstly business oriented user stories. Technical stories only when really necessary (decision Chief-PO). Be aware, that innovation usually does not mean adding another tool.
Requirements | Risk oriented features first | Analyze the risk of a feature and plan to implement high risk features first in order to reduce the risk of failure as early as possible .Fail early principle.
Requirements | Agreed project goals | Project goals and the overall big picture are available and known and accepted by everybody in the project. We understand the reasons of the project. Write goals SMART .Having agreed project goals assures that fulfillment of those goals satisfies the business. Without goals it is not possible to achieve project success in a well planned way.
Requirements | Stakeholder communication | All relevant commercial and systems stakeholders are involved in business analysis as needed. To have a communication channel between Commercial and IT side .A gap between business/customer and IT can lead to unsuccessful projects.
Requirements | Nonfunctional Requirements | Non-functional aspects are covered adequately. They can be measured and criteria for fulfillment is defined (e.g. performance criteria) .NFR are an important basis for system architecture and design decisions. Most projects fail in late phases (like going live) when NFR have not been considered.
Requirements | System borders | Define system borders early. Complexity and size of the project depend very much on those limits. Make sure to describe exactly the interfaces between systems, write contracts between those systems and make sure the foreign system owner agrees! Identify the work load in foreign systems and make sure to have a common project planning that also includes sufficient integration testing .Not taking this in account early leads later on to increased communication and often to more effort and failed plans.
Architecture and Design | Upfront Design | Ensure that you have a good understanding of the business process your software will support. Also make sure you are aligned with your stakeholders about what your design optimizes for and what not. Try to use tools that facilitate the communication between you and your stakeholders. Be prepared to evolve your design over time to incorporate new learnings .Having initial Personas, Epics and User Stories increases the chance to understand the expectations in terms of "-ilities". Understand what requirements are solid knowledge and what is guesswork. Be as explicit as possible even if that comes at the price of being redundant.
Architecture and Design | Data over Applications | Make sure you have a very good understanding of all the data involved. This includes different representations like derived or joined data sets. Data is stateful in almost all cases and has a certain inertia that makes it potentially very hard to move. Data should be close to the application in order to be used effectively. At the same time you should have a strategy that allows your data to be joined with other data easily .In our company, Data is front and center. All applications that we build are meant to increase the value of our data so treating data as our core asset just makes sense. Data that sits in data silos does add only limited value so embracing an open data landscape is of paramount strategical importance. This does not mean, however, that we follow a closed-world-assumption with a single version of truth. Redundant, incomplete or conflicting versions of data may exist across the landscape and should be logically separated into modules with known properties and well-defined interfaces. Velocity is another core property of every data set - make sure you reflect both event-time and processing time in your architecture.
Architecture and Design | Separation of Concerns | Composition over Inheritance. Decompose the problem at hand based on business capabilities. Check whether it makes sense to decouple your components into Services/Modules that can be run/scaled/consumed and developed independently .Designing applications and data assets as a composition of compartmentalized services makes it easier to run and scale them independently. On the other hand it increases the complexity, so a strict versioning is mandatory and may even include the maintenance of legacy versions to allow for backward compatibility. For example: For web facing services you may want to adhere to the principles of 12 Factor Apps.
Architecture and Design | Evolution - not Repetition | Check whether an existing platform can and should be leveraged. This may include off-the-shelf software. Try to balance the need to enhance, modify or replace an existing platform to accommodate the requirements of your application with the impact this has on other applications. Make sure you are aligned with the stakeholders of these other applications .Sharing Platforms, Frameworks, Libraries and etc is understood to be beneficial but introduces dependencies as well. That's why an alignment with other consumers of the shared components is so important.
Architecture and Design | Behavior Driven Design | Do not limit your design efforts to application design and code assets but make sure that you put the same effort into designing the documentation and testing procedures. Whether the design of an application is good or bad shows only in 3-5 years with a new team responsible for incorporating changes .Applications that are composed of independent services, shared platforms and span multiple data sources are notoriously hard to test effectively. Unit tests are not sufficient. Manual acceptance tests are not efficient. Only automated end-to-end tests with a significant amount of test data can really stabilize and accelerate the development process.
Implementation | Stick to design | The team agrees on an architecture and sticks to it .Design patterns and architectural patterns, that are specific for a (sub-)system must be followed any time .Changes to the software design have to consider the big picture and have to be decided by the responsible architect.
Implementation | Coding conventions | Follow language specific coding conventions,Software code is shared among developers and has to be readable, understandable and maintainable .Coding conventions include naming conventions, coding style, recommended design patterns and anti-patterns.
Implementation | Unit tests | Create unit tests for all relevant parts of the software .Automated tests help us to: •produce well-structured, modular code •reduce the number of defects •reduce fixing effort for bugs that are found late •beware working code from being accidentally broken,Unit tests don't have to cover 100% of the source code and should focus on relevant parts of the software.
Implementation | Definition of Done | Agree upon and follow the definition of done for everything you develop .A definition of done helps all team members to understand what they can expect from each other and what they can rely on.
Test | Risk Based Testing | Exhaustive testing is impossible and inefficient. It´s not our goal to find all bugs but we verify the core functionality is working and no major bugs are existent.Therefore we test the most critical components first and more precisely. If there is no risk at all there is no need to test .Project resources are always limited. If we choose the wrong approach and start with uncritical test cases we threaten the project goals. Additionally testing is getting too expensive and inefficient.
Test | Early and efficient testing | Testing activities incl. End-to-End-Test(e.g. Code Review, Unit Test) should be part of any project and start as early as possible (lowest testing level) in the software lifecycle. They shall be focused on defined objectives and an appropriate application layer has to be selected .Fixing errors on higher testing levels increases the costs, slow down the process and could endanger the whole project success. Additionally it is inefficient and likely has negative consequences on other test tasks.
Test | Test status | Enable the project to evaluate the quality at anytime. Inform actively about the status. Establishing KPIs is the base for making right decisions .Besides reporting, it is important to have a traceability concerning test cases, defects,bugs, requirements, etc. Decisions without having the necessary information are difficult and more likely not the best calls.
Test | Appropriate level of Test automation | To get faster results and increase efficiency we use automated test cases where technically and economically possible .Agile Integration: We create and execute automated test cases within the same sprint cycle wherever possible to achieve highest efficiency .Especially for agile projects, automated test cases are crucial for receiving the results on time. Without having the right set of automated test cases it is impossible to get an acceptable coverage .Time offset leads to inefficient processes. In addition test cases can be used immediately (within the same sprint). A high coverage helps to get fast results and to evaluate the quality of a deliverable at the end of a sprint.
Test | Stable test environment and test data | We are using a stable and useful test environment in order to achieve meaningful test results. Required test data needs to be defined and make available timely .Unstable test environments and data could increase the effort and lead to wrong results. For functional test and technical tests, test data management is an important prerequisite to ensure reasonable test results.
Test | Independent test cases | Test cases have to be created independently from each other .Tests that are atomic, specific, precise and independent could provide fast feedback on the test result of different features/system functionalities for quick corrective action without the need to isolate the rootcause via human intervention. If test cases are interdependent and tightly coupled, a defect related to the test case in the earlier sequence could block the execution of dependent test cases in later sequence.  Like wise, early test steps that are failed in a long test case could also block the execution of subsequent steps, hence masking the defects could have uncovered by short and atomic tests.
Test | Design for test | Provide necessary interfaces for executing tests. Close collaboration with System architects and developers in early stages is mandatory and help to accomplish essential requirements .Regarding automation, we choose an automated test approach with highest maintainability. (e.g Keyword-Driven instead of Script based),Without having the required testability it´s impossible to execute sufficient tests. This leads either to untested software or to substantial delays .Not only the technical test team should be able to maintain automated tests. By using the right approach members of the functional test can easily maintain the test cases themselves.
Test | Reliability and Reproducibility | Test cases have to be designed in a way they could be reproduced under consistent conditions and deliver identical results .Test results which cannot be reproduced are useless and will lead to time consuming discussions.
Operations and Support | Least authorisation | IT staff should have only the needed rights to do their job and not administrator rights in general. The same applies for applications, they should run with only the necessary rights needed to fulfill their tasks .This principle is important in order to reduce risk in operation of human errors and noncompliance. This is to ensure that we have stable and performant IT services for our customers.
Operations and Support | Design for devops | Our company's developed software must be designed for automated deployment and configuration. It´s also important that software can be updated without or only with short downtimes .Time to market is important, therefore any manual step to release new features should be automated. Customers don´t like service disruptions, therefore we must prevent outages during deployments.
Operations and Support | Logging and tracing | Good logging and tracing capabilities must be in place .Support team needs good analysis options to solve incidents quickly to restore the ITservice as quickly as possible.
Operations and Support | Design for business continuity | Business continuity must be planned in the design phase. Discuss availability demand with business,In order to supply robust and stable IT services we need to discuss disaster scenarios and mitigations with the business
Build Management | CI Builds | Every commit should be tested as early, thorough and fast as possible. This should be staged by priorities. (Compilability, unit tests, integration tests, code quality),A CI build job checks code for buildability and derives immediate feedback to the team about the outcome of the build and quality check .This principle covers two aspects: •Deployable binaries of our software must always be build on a common build server (not on a developer machine) •Frequent builds ensure early feedback for timely corrective action if source code breaks,Ideally, gated check-ins are used (i.e. source code cannot be checked in until builds succeed). The later problems are detected, the harder the problems to be fixed. Using an early CI build ensures a minimal quality standard for centralized code repository.
Build Management | Pre Commit Check | Commits should not be allowed into master branch without passing the defined quality gates. These quality gates must be continuosly adjusted .If the master is protected from erroneous commits, it always contains releaseable content. If non-releasable content is allowed into master, releases can not be created on demand.
Build Management | Extreme Feedback | Every team member must be notified as early and as precise as possible about build relevant issues (failing builds/deployments), this should be done with a different mechanism than email .The earlier teams members are notified of a problem, the earlier they can act to resolve it
Build Management | Repeatable Build | Builds must be repeatable, i.e. the same source code must result in exactly the same artifacts .If builds are not repeatable, production bugs might not be able to be reproduced on other environments.
Build Management | Environment Independent Artifact | Artifacts must be independent of the target environment. The same artifact must be deployable to all environments .If builds are environment specific, a new build would have to be started for every stage of a deployment pipeline, introducing additional risks.
Build Management | Artifact Repository/Dependency Management | Build results must be stored in a separate repository. Dependent projects and deployments must take the artifacts solely from that repository. This must be done using an appropriate dependency management mechanism of the build system .Coupling two projects via source code control introduces traceability problems, especially considering tagging and branching. Also it unnecessarily increases the build time.
Build Management | Versioning Scheme | Implement a version scheme that allows to easily differentiate between stable and unstable versions. This allows quick turnaround times for developers using unstable version on actual environments, while minimizing the risk of accidental deployment of those unstable versions to higher environments (including production).