Agility | Customer Satisfaction | Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software,"The needs of our customer is at the center of our work. Distinguish between needs, objectives and requirements of your customer. If you know the needs and objectives, you are able and have to communicate a clear vision of the project - don't start without these. Have the needs, objectives and requirements in an unambiguous prioritized order. A project is successful if the customers' needs are fulfilled! A clear and communicated vision is the base for self-organization. Clear prioritization helps you to validate and reach the core needs of your customers and secure it, before starting to tackle lower priority items. Example: Christopher Columbus failed in his objective to find a westward route to India to enter the spice trade (requirement) but succeeded to fulfill the need of the Spanish Crown for profit by discovering America. With the knowledge of the need he was able to set up adapted objectives and requirements with his customer.
Agility | Changing Requirements | Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage.","Embrace change. To enable this, we must be both stringent and flexible in the way we document and manage such changes. Manage change actively - everyone in the team is responsible for recognizing, treating and documenting the changes. Updates to the project plan or to the client contract may be necessary. Understand the impact of any requested changes. The more fundamental or pervasive an impact brought by a change, the more consciously you should commit to them. Be generous with low-impact changes. Be stingy with changes which undermine or dilute the foundations of the project (assumptions in design/architecture/usage...) or which increases your technical debt to an unacceptable degree. When you are stringent/clean with your spec (a maintained, understandable, manageable backlog), then you can be initially clear on what's requested and it is easier to recognize and manage the ""delta"". We recognize that customer requirements (or our preferred solution approach) will change as our solution evolves, simply because knowledge about the challenge and its solutions rises over time.The better we are able to handle changes, the better we can understand and support our clients in an always changing world.
Agility | Frequent Delivery | Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.","The earlier a client/customer can see a result, the earlier it is possible to obtain feedback and to correct mistakes in the product vision. You gain more trust by showing your progress (and your problems) without hiding it.
Agility | Working Together | Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.,"No plan and process can replace a good working together, based on trust. Documents and plans help us in not forgetting something, but in the end, the way of working together is what makes us successful.
Agility | Motivation | Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.","This may be a ""soft fact"", but a motivated team is a good indicator for a well performing project, because it usually means people are aware of their goals and motivated to reach it.
Agility | Face-to-face Conversation | The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation,Nothing is better than close contact. It reduces the risk of misunderstandings.
Agility | Working Software | Working software is the primary measure of progress.,The centerpiece of all our efforts.
Agility | Constant Pace | Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.",You reach this with fixed work intervals (sprints). A fixed rhythm enables you to optimize your daily work routine. Keep that pace until the end.
Agility | Technical Excellence | Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.,Having the right technology for the job. But try not to include too many new technologies into a project.
Agility | Simplicity | Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential.," Be pragmatic, use the right tools and processes to reach your destination but reflect in intervals whether something is still necessary or not.
Agility | Self-organizing Teams | The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.","After all, the teams are doing the relevant work in a project. When they accept the job and get self organized, there is little that can stop them.
Agility | Retrospective | At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.","Enable and encourage Learning. Throughout the entire project, create regular checkpoints to evaluate and challenge the effectiveness of your process. Any agreed improvements are swiftly implemented and followed-up upon. (development methodology, communication, roles) strive to improve opportunities. Conduct a lessons learned/Retrospective session periodically. Find out the weaknesses followed by defining action points. Reflect your strengths and expand them further. The team should establish a routine to regularly reflect and improve their methods and results. They actively request feedback from their respective stakeholders, possibly in various groups (team-level, among product owners, all-hands/across teams, project-vs.-customers etc.). The results of these Retrospectives should be logged (in a light-weight manner) and followed-up upon in the next iteration/sprint/phase.Establish a feedback culture i.e. make taking and giving feedback normal and people know how to do both. Without continous improvement it is likely to repeat the same mistake again. Enable the team to continuously improve and to become more efficient in their daily work.
Overall Process | Transparent Planning | Have a holistic project plan and make it come to life, think ahead and update it regularly. The plan should be detailed for the near future and coarse grained for the more distant future. Know your critical path. Communicate your plan regularly to everybody who needs to know, adapted to the respective audience.Make sure plans on all ""levels"" (program-wide, within teams, Iteration planning etc.) are in sync and reflect what is actually to be done. Ideally, plans on the individual and team levels can be easily derived from a larger, higher-level plan.","Set up project delivery strategy (communication, working principles, controlling etc.) holistically. All parties must collaborate in all stages of the project/product lifecycle - albeit with varying contribution levels. We must think beyond the creation of pure ""software"" and consider other aspects: hardware/infrastructure, adaption of business/organizational processes or structures, training etc..
Agility | General Principle | The plan should be ""experiencable"" on all levels of the project. Assure that the plan is assessed and updated in the frequency the project calls for. By using this way it always reflects the latest insights of the feasibility, business priority etc. thus enabling the Project Lead to steer forward-looking. The plan must be communicated in such a way that stakeholders understand the impact on and value for their business.
Overall Process | Research vs. Delivery | Distinguish between exploration and productization. Adapt project methodology and goals to match how clearly a business need is understood. To prove feasibility, do a time-boxed research project. To create a defined product, do a delivery project. Don't mix.","A research project is successful when it gives a positive OR negative answer to a question, thus when knowledge is increased. Results of a research project may be e.g. a working prototype, a proof of a thesis, a proof of impossibility.
Agility | General Principle | Results of a delivery project may be e.g. working software, working infrastructure. A delivery project is successful when it fulfills a customers' need in a given time, with given budget and resources and in a given quality.
Overall Process | Scope Management | Be able to name your scope completely i.e. have a scope list (e.g. backlog). Have unique priorities for every demand/requirement. Make it possible to derive everything (like tests, etc.) from your scope management (Traceability). Have someone responsible on customer AND deliverer side for the scope list. Have a reproducible and documented scoping, in case of an iterative process have additionally a regular and incremental scoping.","Ask 5 times 'why' when talking about requirements to find out the real need. Example: It is said that Henry Ford (the American industrialist who founded the Ford Motor Company and developed and manufactured the first automobile that many middle class Americans could afford) has stated: "If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said: faster horses". Document your scope in each stage of clarity: in the very beginning maybe only meeting minutes, in the end maybe formal user stories. Anti-Pattern: mostly ""verbal"" requirements, very vague specs/stories.
Overall Process | Risk Management | Prove feasibility early and identify the riskiest aspects of your solution and tackle them first. Have a list with uniquely prioritized risks and regular status / steering meetings through all levels to discuss them. Define your increments so that you can prove your assumptions before you scale in terms of breadth of functionality or maturity/richness etc.","The earlier you prove the end-to-end feasibility ? the lower the cost of changing your project's approach. When your Stakeholders also know the risks and how you handle them, they will be less surprised (or angry) in case a risk becomes active. Minimal viable product and walking skeleton approach are good examples to handle risk.
Overall Process | Roles And Responsibilities | Assign responsibilities based on roles. Clearly define a set of roles that match your project and chosen development process. For each role, outline responsibilities by defining duties AND rights, so that each role can deliver optimal results. Then jointly map roles to people. Communicate and vet these definitions to everybody involved, regularly revisit them, and improve them whenever they prove unclear. Encourage that roles and responsibilities are internalized by the team and ""lived""/operationalized on a daily basis. Make sure that the right people fulfill their roles, e.g. are the ones who take decisions. On a team level ...be aware that systems and communication follow organization (see also Conway's Law). ...bundle the people together you want to self-organize. ","Try to assign just one role to a team member. If a team member plays several roles, make sure that during each interaction with the team it is clear in which role they are acting. You could regularly confirm/remind/challenge in which role someone is contributing at a given meeting or discussion. Retrospectives could include a check on how well roles are filled/executed. You could also create a RACI-Matrix which is regularly revisited. Self-organization and autonomy is only possible with close alignment among and between teams. Assure these two are in balance! The amount of self-organization should relate to your project setup (for example, whether your teams are co-located or geographically distant). Assure that there is someone in each team responsible for fostering, governing and improving the self-organization (e.g. a ""Scrum Master"" if you're running on Scrum).
Overall Process | Documentation | Leave a Documentation trail. We document regularly and with sufficient scope and detail. Documentation is an explicit task and part of our Definition of Done. This applies to both the ""software-related"" documentation (concepts/specs, code, user manuals) but also ongoing project artifacts (team roles, vacations, meeting notes). It is obligatory that a development project delivers a functional and technical documentation together with the system.","Assuming that people ""remember"" agreements, or ""interpret"" the workings of a piece of software is hazardous. If in doubt, log something quickly, immediately and in the right place. Redundancy should be minimized to avoid misunderstandings which version of an artifact is binding or current. Keeping documentation light-weight will reduce the barriers to keep it fresh. Therefore choose wisely the proper format for the job (texts, diagrams, images, wiki/glossary) that can be understood by the relevant stakeholders. Prefer few (important) documentation that is always up to date over much documentation that is not up to date.
Overall Process | Quality Gates | Follow defined Quality Gates and include them deeply into the project.,Without complying  defined Quality Gates it is possible that issues will be detected too late. Additionally the overall goal is endangered.,2,4,,,X
Overall Process | Bugfixing Strategy | Define a strategy for handling bugs during release preparation and in production. This should include the versioning scheme for bugfixes (buildmanagement). Test your strategy with dummy bugs before going into production.,"Bugfixing processes, builds and deployments need to be in place before first production deployment to allow fast reaction when the first bugs are encountered.
Agility | Pre Commit Check | Commits should not be allowed into master branch without passing the defined quality gates. These quality gates must be continuosly adjusted.,"If the master is protected from erroneous commits, it always contains releaseable content. If non-releasable content is allowed into master, releases can not be created on demand.
Agility | Extreme Feedback | Every team member must be notified as early and as precise as possible about build relevant issues (failing builds/deployments), this should be done with a different mechanism than email.","The earlier teams members are notified of a problem, the earlier they can act to resolve it
Agility | Repeatable Build | Builds must be repeatable, i.e. the same source code must result in exactly the same artifacts.","If builds are not repeatable, production bugs might not be able to be reproduced on other environments.
Agility | Environment Independent Artifact | Artifacts must be independent of the target environment. The same artifact must be deployable to all environments.,"If builds are environment specific, a new build would have to be started for every stage of a deployment pipeline, introducing additional risks.
Agility | Artifact Repository/Dependency Management | Build results must be stored in a separate repository. Dependent projects and deployments must take the artifacts solely from that repository. This must be done using an appropriate dependency management mechanism of the build system.,"Coupling two projects via source code control introduces tracability problems, especially considering tagging and branching. Also it unecessarily increases the buildtime.
Agility | Versioning Scheme | Implement a version scheme that allows to easily differentiate between stable and unstable versions.,"This allows quick turnaround times for developers using unstable version on actual environments, while minimizing the risk of accidental deployment of those unstable versions to higher environments (including production).